Categories of Network :


Three primary categories :

LAN (lOCAL AREA NETWORK) ::  is a data communication system within a building, plant or campus or between nearby buildings.
MAN(METROPOLITAN NETWORK) :: is a data communication system covering an area the size of a town or city.
WAN (WIDE AREA NETWORK) :: is a data communication system spanning states, countries or the whole world.

Into which category a network falls is determined by its size, its ownership, the distance it covers and 
its physical architecture.

LANs : 
is usually privately owned and links the devices in a single office, building or campus

Depending on the needs of an organization and the type of technology used, a LAN can be as simple as 2 PCs 
and a printer in someones home office, or can it extend throughout a company and include video, voice and sound peripherals.

Currently, LAN size is limited to few Kms.

LAN are designed to allow resources to be shared b/w PCs or workstations.
The resources to be shared can include h/w (printer), s/w(an application pgm) or data.

In addition to Size, LANs are distinguished from other types of N/W by their transmission media and topology.
In general, a given LAN will use only one type of transmission medium.
The most common LAN topologies are Bus, Ring and Star.

Traditionally, LANs have data rates in the 4 to 16 Mbps range. However, speeds are increasing and can reach 100-mbps with
gigabit systems in developement.


MANs :
is designed to extend over an entire city.

It may be single network such as cable television network or it may be means of connecting a no. of LANs into a larger n/w 
so tht resources may be shared LAN-to-LAN as well as device-to device.
For ex : a company can use a MAN to connect the LANs in all of its offices throughout a city.

A MAN can be wholly onwned and operated by a private company, or it may be a service provided by a public company, 
such as a local telephony comapny.

Many telephone companies provide a popular MAN service called SMDS(Switched Multi-megabit Data Services).


WANs : provides long distance transmission of data, voice, image and video info over large geographical areas that may
comprise a country, continent or even the whole world.

In contast to LANs(which depends on their own h/w for transmission), WANs may utilize public, leased or private communication
devices, usually in combinations and therefore span an unlimited no. of miles.


A WAN that is wholly owned and used by a single company, is often referred to as an Enterpise network.

Internetwork : when 2 or more n/ws are connected, they become internetwork or internet(network of networks)
Individual networks are joined into internetworks by the use of internetworking devices. These devices include
routers and gateways.


























WANs :


















